Over the last lectures, we spend a lot of time to store data and files,
now we also want to get them when we visit find place. Getting all that is much easier than storing
it,
all we need to do is get all the places we store here or in a real app, you probably want to chunk this
but since you might be using any backend, I'm not going to dive into how this works in firebase, the
firebase docs can help you with filtering your results though,
so we'll be getting all the places here so everything in this places object
and then just output it here. Find place is where we want to render it in the end
and this is where we all have our nice animation,
so what the goal will be is to somehow dispatch an action that will fetch all the images and then store
them in our redux store so that they are available once we click that find button,
so I want to load them in advance so that we don't start loading once we click find them because I don't
want to wait for this to finish,
I don't want to have the effect of my animation being finished without the images being there,
that's not optimal.
Therefore in advance is what I want to do,
so I will actually add a lifecycle
hook here, componentDidMount, this is I want to dispatch an action to fetch the places but yeah, the action
itself is missing.
So let's revisit the places files in the actions folder,
we got an add place constant, we got delete place and deleting is something we'll also need to implement,
now we also clearly need export const get places, there we don't need any arguments,
the goal just is to reachout to our backend and get the places. So since we will be running async
code here,
I will also return dispatch here, so I will return a function so that we can do this and redux thunk helps
us.
Now we got a lot of logic here already which I can now reuse,
I don't want to target a cloud function,
I want to target my normal cloud firebase database there, so I can actually catch or use this whole fetch
block here from before and enter it here,
however without a payload, we don't need to add a body and we don't need to set the method to post,
I want to use the default of get. I want to target exactly this url though because this targets the
places node where all our places are stored
and then I can simply catch any errors and as you learned, simply alert something went wrong,
sorry
or do something else,
also log the error in this case.
I don't dispatch start and stop loading,
we could do that here but I don't plan on using a spitter so I don't need it in the screen where we
will be active,
I will then also add a then block to handle the response,
extracted.json data and then another block to have the parsed response where we can work with
it.
This is now the interesting part, here I need to dispatch another action which will be consumed by our
reducer which then should set up the places. For this I'll go to action types
and I actually no longer need add place and delete place because we don't use them,
we remove them,
we use them in our synchronous action creators which return just actions in the past.
Instead here, I need an action type which can be handled by the reducer which is used when the data is
there,
I will name it set places and the identifier will be set places too.
So therefore in the places action file, I'll add a new function, a new action creator which I name
set places,
the idea here is that this is the action we use when we got a response,
so here I will receive the places we got and I will simply return a javascript object here where the
type is then set places,
so I will import that from the action type, set places and remove the imports of add and delete place
because we don't have these anymore and then at the bottom, the type will be set places and I will forward
the places, so pass them as a property of that action.
This is what I want to
dispatch here,
here I want to dispatch set places and execute it to essentially dispatch this action object.
However I need to pass places to that and the parsed places will not be an array of places but a javascript
object where the keys will be these unique IDs and the values will then be the nested objects with location,
name and so on.
So first of all what I'll quickly do is
I will clean up the invalid data points which don't have an image yet because these would lead to wrong
displayals
and now I need to add some logic to turn this structure into a structure where I work with an array.
Well for that, I'll simply add a places constant here which is an empty array
and now I want to loop with a for/in loop through all the keys in this javascript object which I just mentioned
would in the end hold these cryptic keys or IDs
as keys and the rest as values. So I can say let key in parsed response
and in the body of that for/in loop, I can then use places and push a place object where I will essentially
distribute all the properties of parsed response for the given key,
so that will be the value of one of these keys like this one with image, location and name.
I'm just saying that I distribute the properties because I want to add one additional one to this newly
created object and that should be let's say the ID of that place which is the key,
so that cryptic key. So with that, we're creating a place and we're pushing it on that places array
and now we can pass this place array to set places.
This is now an array of objects which have this structure with image, location and name and an extra
ID field which will hold this automatically generated ID, that will be important for deleting them later.
Now we need a reducer function or a case that handles this,
so let's go to the places reducer and add place is no longer something we need,
so I will get rid of it here,
I will leave delete place for now though
but chances are that we'll also change
this a bit but let's leave it as it is for now.
And I now want to remove these imports here and that means I have to comment out delete place
otherwise we get an error and I will import set places.
Now let's handle the case for set places, there the goal is to return a new javascript object of course
where we distribute the old state
but now I want to initialize my places array here with places and that should come from action places
because if you have a look at the action creator, set places, there we have a places property, this is
what I'm now extracting here.
This is how we now set the places equal to the places we fetched from the server and each place will
have an image, a location and a name.
Let's now verify that this structure fits our find place screen still,
so there we connect it to redux and we get to the places, the question now just is to place list where
we pass
this places prop,
if we have a look at place list,
there we try to extract the name, the image and the key and keep in mind, the image will be a url. So
in list item if we inspect this, we see that we set the source equal to props place image,
now we need to change this because since the image now is just a url and no longer an object with
uri assigned to this,
we need to change it.
We could change it here by turning this into a javascript object where we store or we set props place
image equal to uri
but I don't like that approach,
I want to keep this list image relatively reusable.
Instead I want to change that in my places action file where I transform the incoming places anyways,
I don't just want to add the ID,
I will also change the image property to be a javascript object which has a uri property that
is equal to parsed response for the given key image, so that the image path is now passed or stored
in a uri, in a javascript object which is then used as an image value, so that the rest of our application
will work as before due to how react natives
image component works, it needs this uri property. With that,
we got all of this in place,
we got the get places function which hopefully triggers our reducer to act correctly.
Now make sure to save all the files
but for this to really work, we need to call get places.
Now this should happen in find place,
as I said in componentDidMount, here I will use that new action,
for that I'll go into my index.js file
and no longer not only export add and delete place but also set places, excuse me, get places, that is what
I'm using from outside,
so that now in find place, I can import that, I can add an import at the top where I import something from
the store folder, the actions folder, the index file and that something is that get places function which
will reach out to the server and get the places. In componentDidMount, I can then use that by dispatching
an action,
so I will need to add this to actions I can dispatch,
so I will add const map dispatch to props at the bottom, get the dispatch function here and then return
my mapping object where I set on load places equal to a function which will in the end dispatch get
places as a function. So on load places is now accessible on props and can be executed to initialize the
fetching of places,
this is what I now do in componentDidMount, I will execute this props on load places, like this.
Now let's see if it works, for this, let's reload
the app
and for the first time, we don't need to add a new place to visit find places,
that's what we hope at least.
One thing I could change to fix the error you just saw is to add map dispatch to props here to connect
as a second argument.
Now with that, back we are, let's reload this and let's try again
and let's click find places, this is looking good.
We get the places, the images are coming in too,
we see the location here,
let's see a couple of different locations.
So the location always seems to be in the same spot,
that's not looking super correct to me here,
also the image is not loading because we're always viewing testing from Android if you click on them,
you see at the top,
it's always testing from Android.
So we always load the same place here, always the first one, this probably has to do with the ID. Let's
fix this in the next lecture and let's thereafter also add functionality to delete places.